---
layout: post
title: Different types of Machine Learning ?
---

As Machine Learning is developed from statistical-based algorithms, we can imagine there are many and many different ways it is implemented. But in fact, all these algorithms can be grouped in three big categories. These three categories are *Supervised Learning*, *Unsupervised Learning* and *Reinforcement*.

I will shortly present these three categories :

- *Supervised Learning* is a way to find patterns between input values and output values using a training dataset (in which the input AND output values are given to the algorithm). An example of this can be the prediction of house price. The dataset can be, for example, composed for the input values of the location of the house, its surface, and the presence of a swimming pool, and for the output, the price of the house. Once you have "fed" the algorithm with this training dataset, giving new input values will predict the output value according to what it have learned. Supervised Learning problems can be grouped into two sub-categories : Regression problems and Classification problems. The example presented previously is a Regression problem. To illustrate the category of Classification Problem we can use a medical example. Let's say we have a dataset giving has input values the size of a cell, its roughness, its composition and its pH, and as output value the fact that it is cancerous or not. The algorithm will find patterns according to input values to determine the output value. In that case, the values are finite values, that is why it is called Classification Problem. Typical algorithms found in supervised learning are : *regression analysis*, *decision trees*, *neural networks*, and *support vector machines*. I will present these concept with more details in future posts.

- *Unsupervised Learning* uses a different approach. In this case, there is no "output" values. Unsupervised learning models patterns using input variables, to create new labels regarding possibles outputs. An example of this can the detection of objects in a bunch of images. The goal of the algorithm is to detect groups of images with different objects, let's say a "house" group, a "trees" group, a "people" group... As for the Supervised learning, Unsupervised learning can be grouped into two sub categories : Clustering and Association problems. This example is a Clustering problem, as the goal is to detect different clusters of objects in images. Clustering is the most common used method of Unsupervised learning. Association problems tries to find case where there is a co-occurence of items in the group. Typical algorithm used in Unsupervised learning are : *clustering analysis*, *association analysis*, *social network analysis* and *descending dimension algorithms*.

- *Reinforcement Learning* is the most advanced category of machine learning. Unlike Supervised and Unsupervised learning, Reinforcement learning builds a prediction model by trialing a large number of inputs and evaluating the result of this input. Some of the first algorithm of Reinforcement learning are the TD-Learning [^2] proposed in 1988 by R.S. Sutton, and the Q-Learning [^3] proposed by C.J. Walkins in 1992 in his thesis. We will use this algorithm to illustrate how Reinforcement learning works. The system starts with some available states "S". From these states, there is a set of possible actions "A". The third important symbol is "Q" that measure the quality of the action(s) at this given state. So, the system starts with a "Q" having an initial value of 0, at a state "s" and tries an action "a". After this action, two main things can happen : the value of "Q" drops, meaning that negatives things occurs, or the value of "Q" increases, meaning that positive things occurs. By evaluating this Q factor, the algorithm learns to match the action for a given state that generates the highest level of "Q". Here is an example of a more in depth explanation of reinforcement learning and Q-learning using ([Pac-Man](https://inst.eecs.berkeley.edu/~cs188/sp12/projects/reinforcement/reinforcement.html)).


-----------------

[^1]: MACHINE LEARNING For Absolute Beginners, Olivier Theobald, 2017.
[^2]: Sutton, R.S. (1988). Learning to predict by the method of temporal differences. Machine Learning, 3:9-44.
[^3]: Watkins, C.J.C.H. & Dayan, P. (1992). Q-learning. Machine Learning, 8:279-292.
